Copyright Â© 1997-2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This software and related documentation are provided under a license
agreement containing restrictions on use and disclosure and are
protected by intellectual property laws. Except as expressly permitted
in your license agreement or allowed by law, you may not use, copy,
reproduce, translate, broadcast, modify, license, transmit, distribute,
exhibit, perform, publish, or display any part, in any form, or by any
means. Reverse engineering, disassembly, or decompilation of this
software, unless required by law for interoperability, is prohibited.

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice
and is not warranted to be error-free. If you find any errors, please
report them to us in writing.

If this is software or related software documentation that is delivered
to the U.S. Government or anyone licensing it on behalf of the U.S.
Government, the following notice is applicable:

U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS Programs, software, databases, and related
documentation and technical data delivered to U.S. Government customers
are "commercial computer software" or "commercial technical data"
pursuant to the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulation and
agency-specific supplemental regulations. As such, the use,
duplication, disclosure, modification, and adaptation shall be subject
to the restrictions and license terms set forth in the applicable
Government contract, and, to the extent applicable by the terms of the
Government contract, the additional rights set forth in FAR 52.227-19,
Commercial Computer Software License (December 2007). Oracle America,
Inc., 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood City, CA 94065.

This software or hardware is developed for general use in a variety of
information management applications. It is not developed or intended
for use in any inherently dangerous applications, including
applications which may create a risk of personal injury. If you use
this software or hardware in dangerous applications, then you shall be
responsible to take all appropriate fail-safe, backup, redundancy, and
other measures to ensure its safe use. Oracle Corporation and its
affiliates disclaim any liability for any damages caused by use of this
software or hardware in dangerous applications.

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

AMD, Opteron, the AMD logo, and the AMD Opteron logo are trademarks or
registered trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices. Intel and Intel Xeon
are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation. All SPARC
trademarks are used under license and are trademarks or registered
trademarks of SPARC International, Inc. UNIX is a registered trademark
licensed through X/Open Company, Ltd.

This software or hardware and documentation may provide access to or
information on content, products, and services from third parties.
Oracle Corporation and its affiliates are not responsible for and
expressly disclaim all warranties of any kind with respect to
third-party content, products, and services. Oracle Corporation and its
affiliates will not be responsible for any loss, costs, or damages
incurred due to your access to or use of third-party content, products,
or services.
